This is one of multiple troubleshooting videos we've been told that switch one on the left in this topology
is not able to ping switch to ON THE RIGHT IN THIS topology now in this topology I'm using physical
devices rather than Janus 3 I'm only using Janus 3 to show a diagram of the topology so let's verify
what we've been told on switch one can we ping switch to it looks like we can't the pings are failing
so let's do some troubleshooting show IP interface brief Can you see the problem here.
What's wrong in this output.
So here's the command show IP interface brief.
What's wrong.
Notice first Ethernet 0 3 is down down show interface if 0 3 we told that to the interfaces down line
protocol is down.
It's not connected now at this point you may need to check the cabling to see if there's a problem but
before you do that let's have a look at the connection.
On the other side so on rather 1 show IP interface brief on the side of the interfaces up down show
interface if 0
in this output we can see that fast ethernet 0 is up or down on the side fast ethernet 0 3 is down down
now based on this output.
What's the problem.
Can you see an issue between the switch and the rudder based on this output.
So before walking and checking the physical cabling or getting someone asked to check the physical cabling
what can you see that's wrong in this output OK.
So notice this full duplex of 100 megabits per second on this side.
Notice auto duplex 10 megabits per second.
It looks like there's a problem with the speed and duplex configuration.
So on this side a MAC address and an IP address have been configured on the first Ethernet interface
and the speed of the interface is 10 meg on the side and the output we can see that it's using full
duplex 100 make per second.
So if we look at the interface configuration notice the speed and duplex have been hard coded.
Typically today you wouldn't do that.
But let's say for example that we set the speed and duplex to 100 meg.
So on this side we set the speed to 100 meg.
Notice you can see that the interface came up and then went down and we are seeing another problem duplex
mismatch and we can see that on both sides we told that first Ethernet 0 is using half duplex and on
our side we're not using half duplex to show run interface f 0 speed is 100 what you probably want to
do is set this to do auto negotiation rather than hardcoded so that they can negotiate properly and
on this side
we probably want to do the same so show run interface.
If 0 slash 3 rather so let's set the speed to auto and the duplex to order so that it's automatically
negotiated with the other side.
Here we still seeing problems with speed and duplex show run interface.
F 0 everything is set to auto and on this side show run interface f 0 slash 3.
Everything is set to auto show interface f 0 slash 3.
We can now see that the interfaces come up up it's connected show interface.
F 0.
Interface is up up so that looks a lot better so it looks like we've solved the problem between switch
1 and root of 1.
We didn't have to check the physical cabling.
The problem here was that the speed and the duplex were wrong.
Okay so can such 1 ping switch to we still having a problem we see used in the output.
In other words unreachable show running config.
Switch doesn't have a lot of config on it but what it does have is an IP address configured locally
and a default gateway so can we ping the default gateway.
Yes we can so disable IP domain look up to speed up trace route and if we trace 2 10 1 3 2 notice we
get to 10 1 1 1.
But we don't get any further.
So it looks like the traffic gets too broad of one but we receiving an unreachable message because rider
1 doesn't know what to do with a traffic so he has brought a one show IP Brunt.
Can you see a problem here.
We only have a route for Ethan at zero.
There's no routes to get to switch to show IP protocol we are running EAI Joe IP on the router and it's
enabled on all interfaces.
So show run Section II GOP has the GOP configuration that looks good.
Show IP ya GOP interface G.I. Joe GOP is enabled on fast ethernet zero as well as serial zero show CTP
neighbors we see a seat neighbour relationship to switch one but we don't see a CW neighbor relationship
to switch to CTP allows us to check or layer 2 connectivity if CTP is working it means that layer 1
and layer 2 are working but at the moment it looks like layer 1 and layer 2 on not working so let's
check show IP interface brief can you see the problem.
Notice serial zero is up and down there's a problem with the physical link between Rado 1 and write
a 2 on brought it to show IP interface
we have the same problem here serial zero is up and down so now would be a good time to check the cabling
fortunately with serial interfaces we can use the command show controllers serial and specify the serial
interface number to check whether a cable is connected to the router in this case interface serial zero
has a DTV cable connected it's a v 35 cable but notice the problem the clocks are stopped on the side
show controllers serial Zero
what's the problem here what's wrong and how do you fix it.
Okay noticed here we've got a v 35 a DC cable and there's no clocking on the cable show run interface
serial zero clocking hasn't been configured on the cable
on a DTV cable you don't use the clock rate to command so I could specify a clock rate but that command
is gonna have no effect because this is a DTV cable but on this side if we enter the clock rate command
and notice they are different clock rates available I'm just going to use 64 K show run interface serial
0 notice the command is retained in the running config and that's because the interface here is a DC
interface so show IP interface brief
interface is now map up on the side we saw a neighbor relationship established in IGP.
We also saw the interface come up to show IP interface brief.
The interface is now up up show.
Controllers
serial zero on this side.
We now see that transmit and receive clocks are detected on the side show.
Controllers serial zero the clocking is set to 64 kilohertz per second because this side is the DC side
of the cable.
A back to back cable is connected between right of one and rudder to
and wrote it to is the DC side.
So it needs to provide the clocking for the connection.
So show GDP neighbors.
We now see rider 2 as a neighbor on board a one ping 10 1 2 2.
We can ping rudder to show IPR GOP neighbor we can see right too as a neighbor and hopefully switch
one will now be able to paying switch to which it can to confirm that I'll use the command debug IP
ICMP on switch 2 and ping from such want to switch to and we can see that an echo reply was sent switch
to can also pane switch one so we've successfully resolved two issues in this network.
Be careful when troubleshooting it's a good idea to know your own assigned model and split the troubleshooting.
Ping trace right in CBP are useful for troubleshooting networks.
It's important that you learn your show commands.
Don't just type it show run on a device learn how to use show commands to see the state of interfaces
so as an example here we can see that the interfaces up up will be able to see other information on
the interface such as the load packets sent and received and so forth.
If I removed the clock rate on this interface by using the command no clock rate what we should see
on rider 1 is that the interface goes down it stays up for a while because of the keep alive which is
set to 10 seconds but after a while.
As you can see there UI GOP neighbor relationship went down and what we should see is that the physical
interface goes down.
After a while
like that.
So the interface has just gone down.
Show interface several zero notice interfaces up and down.
So learn to use your show commands to see what's going on on the network.
So show controllers serial zero.
Here we can see that a DTV cable is connected but we're not receiving clocking in clocking a set.
This will change as you can see here transmit and receive clocks are detected interfaces come up show
interface serial zero.
We can now see that the interfaces up one of the most important skills for years a network engineer
is to learn how to troubleshoot networks.
Hope you found this video useful if it's been of benefit to you please like it.
And please subscribe to our YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.